# Intriguing Properties of Synthetic Images: From Generative Adversarial Networks to Diffusion Models

## Overview

Detecting fake images has become a crucial goal in computer vision, particularly with the continuous improvement of synthesis methods based on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and the emergence of powerful methods based on Diffusion Models (DMs). To this end, understanding which image features best discriminate fake images from real ones is essential.

This repository provides the official implementation of the paper "Intriguing Properties of Synthetic Images: From Generative Adversarial Networks to Diffusion Models." Our study systematically examines a wide range of image generators from different families to identify the most forensically relevant characteristics of real and generated images. Key observations include:

1. Artifacts visible in the Fourier domain are present not only in GAN-generated images but also in those generated by DMs and VQ-GANs (Vector Quantized Generative Adversarial Networks).
2. Biases in the training dataset can be transferred to the generated images if the dataset lacks sufficient variety.
3. Synthetic and real images statistically differ in their mid-high frequency signal content, observable in their radial and angular spectral energy distribution.

## Requirements

- Pytorch
- Matplotlib
- tqdm
- Pillow
- numpy

## Usage

To analyze your synthetic images, follow these steps:

1. Create a folder named `images` in the root directory of this repository.
2. Place all the images you want to analyze in the `images` folder.
3. Run the analysis script by executing the following command in your terminal:

    ```bash
    bash script.sh
    ```

   The script will handle the entire process.

## Outputs

After running the script, the analysis results will be saved in the `SyntheticImagesAnalysis/outputs` folder. The output will include:

- **Power Spectra**: Images showing the distribution of signal power across different frequency components.
- **Autocorrelation**: Images representing the degree of similarity between the image and its shifted versions.
- **Radial Spectra**: Images illustrating the radial distribution of spectral energy.
- **Angular Spectra**: Images representing the angular distribution of spectral energy.

These outputs will help you understand the frequency-based characteristics of the synthetic images and identify patterns or artifacts indicative of generated images.

## License

The license for the code can be found in the `LICENSE.md` file.

